---
layout: post
category: [blog]
title: "Symbols that streamline communication"
author: PixelSergey
---

A lot of communication (in any natural language) is long and inefficient.
Here is a short list of symbols that I think are nice ways of making speech and text more terse.

There are many ideas that can be condenesed into short abbreviations, phrases, special characters,
and other forms of speech and text (from here on, _symbols_) that streamline the transfer of information.
Indeed, in many fields (aviation and radio communication comes to mind), complex ideas are regularly packaged into
symbols in order to help people get their ideas across faster.
In this post, I want to propose some interesting symbols and give each one of them a formal, unambiguous definition.

Some of the following symbols are quite natural for people to use.
Others sound very weird or jarring and would sound quite awful if you used them in speech.
This list isn't designed to be a guide for actual communication;
rather, it's a theoretical description of what kinds of symbols we could have if we wanted to maximise efficiency
(and more generally, what sounds and looks cool on paper).

---

## Roger/Wilco

**Origin**: Aviation

**Explanation**:
This symbol is recognised by a lot of people to be a synonym for "OK".
While this is an acceptable way of thinking about it, the word "Roger" has a nice, rigorous definition in aviation:

> ROGER: I have received all of your last transmission.

This definition says nothing about agreeing with a statement or following instructions.
It simply says that you have heard everything the other person has said.
For agreement, there is a separately defined word:

> WILCO: I understand your message and **will comply** with it.

This is, in a way, a stronger version of the above phrase, as it implies both understanding (reception) and compliance.

_Sidenote: the term Roger can often be abbreviated to just "r"._
_This letter is also commonly used to mean "ready"._

_Sidenote 2: Many people use the phrase "Roger that" instead of just "Roger"._
_This is undefined (in aviation) and constitutes a mistake._

**Examples**:
- (over text) "im going to the store" "r"
- (over text) "hmu when you wanna play some mario kart" "wilco"
- (before an Overwatch match, both teams are **ready** to play) "r" "r"

---

## ==

**Origin:** Many programming languages

**Explanation:**
Often, when communicating, you want to _ask_ about equality instead of _stating_ equality.
Is that weird term your conversation partner just used the same as some other word you already know?
Is some location equal to relative directions from some other place?

Quite obviously, equality is quite a lot more general than any concrete example I can give.
So far, this is the best formal definition I've come up with:

> "A == B?" should result in a yes/no response from the conversational partner for any two concepts A and B.
>
> If both concepts A and B result in the same transfer of information between both of you, the response is yes.
>
> Otherwise, the response is no.

What do I mean by "transfer of information"?
Here are some examples:
- If A and B are synonymous words (or if they are close enough to produce understanding of a concept),
then the information transferred with the two words is the same.
- If A="the store" and B="across the street from the railway station", and both of these concepts point to the same direction
in the context of the conversation, then the information transferred is the same.
In this case, we have made some implicit knowledge from A explicit by stating it in B.
However, the two concepts still satisfy equality as they "encode" the same information.
- If A and B are different enough to cause both parties to get a different understanding of a concept or
the outcome of the conversation to be different for both parties (e.g. understanding a different location),
then the information transferred is not the same.

_Sidenote: I would find it interesting to approach this by trying to formulate a definition from the mathematical definition of equality_
_(reflexivity, symmetricity, transitivity, substitution), but I felt that this hand-wavy definition was more intuitive._
_Hit me up if you come up with something better!_

---

## &&/||/xor

**Origin:** Many programming languages

**Explanation:**
In natural languages, there is often confusion when using the term "or".
While it's usually used as an exclusive-or, it sometimes encodes an inclusive-or, and sometimes its meaning is ambiguous.
This leads to people occasionally using the ugly phrase "and/or".

To remedy this, here are three definitions to update the terms "and" and "or":

> "A && B" requires the recipient of the message to consider both concepts A and B in context
>
> "A \|| B" requires the recipient of the message to consider at least one (i.e. also has the option to consider both) concepts A and B in context
>
> "A xor B" requires the recipient of the message to consider exactly one (not both) concepts A and B in context.

---

## Inclusive/exclusive "we"

**Origin:** Chinese and a few other natural languages

**Explanation:**
This is less of a symbol and more of a language feature that I'm annoyed that English and other western languages don't have.
While its meaning is usually deducible from context, the word "we" can mean one of two things when said to another person:
1. "Me, other people, but not you" (exclusive "we")
2. "Me and you, and optionally other people" (inclusive "we").

This occasionally leads to annoying ambiguity when you don't know which of these a conversational partner is using.
Chinese and some other languages remedy this by including an inclusive (咱们, zámen) and exclusive (我们, wŏmen) options for the pronoun.

On the other hand, this ambiguity in English allows for passive/implied invitation ("We are going to the amusement park"
doesn't specify who this "we" exactly is, and allows the recipient to accept this invitation by treating the pronoun as inclusive
or reject by treating the pronoun as exclusive: "Cool, let me get dressed" vs. "Have fun!").

---

## Phonetic alphabet

**Origin:** Radio communications

**Explanation:**
Once again, this is less of a symbol but a useful skill I think everyone should have.
The phonetic alphabet is used internationally in aviation, radio communications, and other fields where spelling out
words, phrases, or other textual information letter-by-letter is required.

In everyday life, this is especially useful for high-noise environments and phone conversations with a bad connection.
Using the phonetic alphabet instead of the regular alphabet ("ayy", "bee", "see", ...) helps with transferring information
surprisingly often and surprisingly well!

Here is the phonetic alphabet for reference.
If you want to learn it (which I highly recommend),
try spelling out street signs and other text you see while driving, walking or commuting somewhere.
It's surprisingly quick to learn once you parrot it enough!

| Letter | Phonetic alphabet |
|--|--|
| A | ALPHA |
| B | BRAVO |
| C | CHARLIE |
| D | DELTA |
| E | ECHO |
| F | FOXTROT |
| G | GOLF |
| H | HOTEL |
| I | INDIA |
| J | JULIET |
| K | KILO |
| L | LIMA |
| M | MIKE |
| N | NOVEMBER |
| O | OSCAR |
| P | PAPA |
| Q | QUEBEC |
| R | ROMEO |
| S | SIERRA |
| T | TANGO |
| U | UNIFORM |
| V | VICTOR |
| W | WHISKEY |
| X | X-RAY |
| Y | YANKEE |
| Z | ZULU |

| Number | Phonetic alphabet |
|--|--|
| 0 | ZERO |
| 1 | ONE |
| 2 | TWO |
| 3 | TREE |
| 4 | FOUR |
| 5 | FIFE |
| 6 | SIX |
| 7 | SEVEN |
| 8 | EIGHT |
| 9 | NINER |
| . | DECIMAL |

---

## QTH

**Origin:** Amateur radio

**Explanation:**
When asking "where you at?", the intention is ill-defined without context.
The person asking this could either want general information about the recipient's location,
for example {home/not at home} if they want to know whether the recipient can play video games with them.
However, the person could also want some more specific information if they want to find or locate the person.

In amateur radio, the appropriate response for a _QTH_ request is a _QTH locator_, which is a code that gives
the person asking a geographical location with a precision of a few kilometers.

In everyday communications, a _locator_ response to the question "QTH?" could imply location information
with enough precision for someone to locate you.
As such, "wya?" would be a more general-purpose question, while "qth?" would mean that the sender is trying to get
specific information about where you are currently at.
A sufficient response would be either an unambiguous direction "right ouside the store at X and Y",
a link to Google Maps if the person is outside/there are no different floors they could be on,
or (preferrably) a location shared with the live location feature present in many instant messaging applications. 

---

## `>>=`

**Alternatives**: bind

**Origin**: The Haskell programming language

**Explanation**:
This is by far my favourite symbol in all of programming.
The "monad bind operator" or `>>=` in Hakell is used to chain together monad operations.
I will not go into the details of monads and the [theory behind them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C2w45qRc3aU), but I hope its usage is understandable from some examples
(to the initiated, I am applying the special case of `Maybe` monads to everyday communication).

Essentially, it combines two questions into one.
If the answer to the first question is "No", then the reader is told to ignore the second question.

**Examples**:

|Original Text|Text using `>>=`|
|--|--|
| "Do you want to go eat out today? If so, then where do you want to go?" | "Do you want to go eat out today `>>=` where" |
| "Have you put the chicken in the oven already? If you have, when did you do it?" | "Have you put the chicken in the oven `>>=` when" |
| "Are you coming to the party tonight? If so, then can you bring some drinks, please?" | "Are you coming to the party tonight `>>=` bring some drinks pls" |
| "Have you solved problem 2 of the homework? If you have, can you give me a hint?" | "Have you solved problem 2 of the homework `>>=` give me a hint" |
| "Did you see where I put my keys? If so, where?" | "Did you see where I put my keys `>>=`" **\***|

**\* (If the second question is empty, then elaborate on the first question if the response is affirmative, and just say no otherwise.**
**Any normal person would do this anyway, but it's a fun little use of the symbol)**

_Sidenote: I have been made aware that this use of "bind" is equivalent to the short-circuit operator `&&` in e.g. JavaScript._
_This seems to be true; however, I can't come up with any more examples of "monadic" things that the bind operator could apply to in everyday conversation._
_Please contact me if you get some good ideas!_ 

---

# Conclusion

That's all my thoughts for now.
Do you have any other symbols that you think might be useful in communication?

**[Contact me!](https://sergey.fi/contact/)**
